## Part 5. Project

Congrats! You have reached the last Part of this Sprint. In this Part, you will put what you learned during this and the previous Sprints into practice. As the final assignment of this Sprint, you will train and deploy a machine learning model on the Portugal Housing prices. You will have to apply all that you have learned about training and deploying machine learning models to complete this task. Our expectation is that you'll use your own judgment on how to perform the analysis and how to select the most important avenues of modeling, statistical testing, and exploration. You'll have to iteratively try to find patterns in the data, raise hypotheses and use your data analysis skills to get answers.

P.S. we don't expect this project to be perfect - you will continue to improve your skills, and there will be many projects for you to apply your newly gained skills in the future. For now, just use what you have learned and try your best!

## Context

Imagine that you are a data scientist working for Portugal Real Estate Brokers. Your team is asked to create a machine learning model, which could predict the price for a given house. The pricing predictions API will be automated with events driven pipeline when new offer is being uploaded to any real estate system. If the price prediction of real estate will be lower than estimation, brokers will contact the owner immediately in order to buy it.

## Objectives for this part
 
- Practice working with CSV files.
- Practice reading data, performing queries, and filtering data.
- Practice visualizing data with Matplotlib & Seaborn.
- Practice performing EDA.
- Practice applying statistical inference procedures.
- Practice using various types of machine learning models.
- Practice building ensembles of machine learning models.
- Practice deploying machine learning models.

## Requirements

- Download the data from [**Real Estate Listings Portugal**](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/luvathoms/portugal-real-estate-2024)
- Perform exploratory data analysis. This should include creating statistical summaries and charts, testing for anomalies, and checking for correlations and other relations between variables and other EDA elements.
- Perform statistical inference. This should include defining the target population, forming multiple statistical hypotheses and constructing confidence intervals, setting the significance levels, and conducting z or t-tests for these hypotheses.
- Apply various machine learning models to predict the "price" column using all other features. This should include hyperparameter tuning, model ensembling, the analysis of model selection, and other methods.
- Deploy the machine learning model. Choose the best performing model and deploy it. You are free to choose any deployment option that you like - you need to containerize the model as a service application and deploy it to Google Cloud Platform so that the model output could be callable through HTTP request.
- Provide clear explanations in your notebook. Your explanations should inform the reader what you are trying to achieve, what results did you get, and what these results mean.
- Provide suggestions about how your analysis can be improved.

## Evaluation Criteria

- Adherence to the requirements. How well did you meet the requirements?
- Depth of your analysis. Did you just skim the surface, or did you explore the dataset in-depth?
- Model's performance. How well did your model perform the predictions?
- Visualization quality. Did you use charts effectively to visualize patterns in the data? Are your visualizations properly labeled? Did you use colors effectively? Did you adhere to the principle of proportional ink?
- Code quality. Was your code well-structured? Did you use the appropriate levels of abstraction? Did you remove commented-out and unused code? Did you adhere to the PEP8?
- Code performance. Did you use suitable algorithms and data structures to solve the problems?

## Project Review

During your project review, you should present your project as if talking to a product manager and senior data scientist working in your team. You will have to find the right balance between explaining the business side and the technical aspects of your work. You can assume that both of your colleagues have a strong understanding of and are very interested in the business aspect of your project, so be sure to clearly explain what new insights you've found while analyzing the dataset and which directions look the most promising for further research. However, you should also spend time explaining the technical aspects of your work, especially the more complex or unconventional choices.

During a project review, you may get asked questions that test your understanding of covered topics.

- Explain the difference between bagging and boosting methods?
- What are some key optimizations that make XGBoost or LightGBM faster and more efficient than traditional gradient boosting implementations?
- What are the key steps involved in deploying a machine learning model to production?
- Why is Docker useful when deploying a machine learning model, and how does it help ensure consistency across environments?
